Cloud Architecture
  1. Requested on-demand
  2. dynamically scale
  3. uses a pool of resources
  4. variety of network access options
  5. Can be measured and billed back to the user based on usage.
  6. relies on data centers 

Server Virtualization
  1. no kvm = keyboard video mouse
  2. racks of servers in a data center
  3. Server Virtualization
    a. Hypervisor
      i. manages and allocates the host hardware to each vm
      ii. vm's have virtual NICs or vNIC
      iii. There are virtual switches
        1. The vNics and PHysical NICs connect internally to a virtual switch
        2. Cisco has virtual switches - Nexus 1000VE
          a. Ports connect to VM's  and can be on its own VLAN or use VLAN Trunking
          b. Ports connected to physical NICs
      Vi. Each host is connected to two siwitches at the top of the rack called T:of the Rack switches (ToR)
      v. Each Tor switch is an access layer switch  
      vi. Each Tor switch is then cabled to EoR or End of Row switch
      
Workflow with a virtualized Data Center

Private Cloud (on Premise)
  1. Customers can click to choose from the cloud services catalog
  2. One company owns the tools that create the cloud and employs the people who use the services. 
  
Public Cloud
  1. Public cloud provider offers services, selling those services to consumers in other companies. 
 
 Cloud and the "As a service" Model 
  1. Infrastructure as a service
    a. Consumer receivces the use of a VM based on Specified amount of hardware performance/capacity, OS to allocate to the VM
    b. Like Amazon Web Services
  2. Software as a Service
    a. Cloud provider uses VM's to create the service, but they are hidden from the customer.
    b. Cloud provider licenses, installs, and supports whatever software is required.  
    c. Examples would be : Appple icloud, google drive, dropbox, emails, exchange
  3. Platform as a Service
    a. includes many more softare tools beyond the basic OS, used particularly for Development
    b. For a developer to be able to write and test code easily 
    c. 
     
 WAN Traffic Paths to reach Cloud Services
  1. Accessing Public Cloud Services using the Internet
    a. 
  2. Pros and Cons with connecting to Public Cloud with the Internet
    Pros
      a. Already have internet connnection
      b. Agility - no need to wate for a private WAN Connection
      c. Migration - can move from one cloud to another easily
      d. Distribute dUsers
    Cons
      a. Security  - less secure than private WANS
      
  3. Private WAN and Internet VPN Access to public Cloud
    a. Use a VPN
      i .Cisco has Cloud Services Router - router that runs as a VM in a cloud service to do what routers do including terminating VPNS
    b. Pros and cons of connecting to cloud with private WANS
      1. secure due to using MPLS and 
      2. Wan Service allows for QoS
      3. Capacity 
      
   4. Intercloud exchanges
    a. Companies that create private networks as a service, 
      1. INtercloud exchange connects to multiple cloud providers on one side and on the other, the intercloud connects to cloud consumers
      2. if the customer wants to change providers, the customers WAN doesn't change, but the intercloud exchange asks provider to set up new Private WANS
      b. Capacity
      c. Qoality of Service - more latency
      d. No WAN SLA - Service Level Agreement
      
