File Transport Protocol and Trivial File Transport Protocol

FTP and TFTP are TCP/IP protocols

Managing Cisco IOS images with FTP/ TfFTP
  1. IOS File System
    a. cisco uses flash memory instead of hard disk drives because there is less chance for failure
    b. each physical memory device in a  router gets an IOS file system name
      i. Opaque - logical internal file systems for convienence of interal functi9ons and commands
      ii. network - external file systems found on different  types of servers for the convienience of referenc ein different IOS commands
      iii. Disk - for flash
      iv. USBFlash - obvious
      v. NVram - default location of the startup-config file
  2. Upgrading IOS images
    1. Get IOS image form cisco.com using http or ftp
    2. place ios image where the router can reach it, like tftp or ftp servers on the ntetwork or USB flash drive in the router
    3. issue a copy command from the router copying the file in to flash memory 
      a. Commands like copy tftp flash
      b. Verify IOS cod eintegrity using MD5 hash checksum
        i. command is verify /md5
  3. Can use tftp or FTP which are not encrypted or SCP which is encrypted
    a. SCP - Secure Copy Protocol which uses ssh
    b. FTP - TCP prt 21
      i. you can Navigate, add/remove directories, list files, and file transfer. 
      ii. Get = client gets a copy of the file from the server
      iii. put = client puts a copy on the ftp server
      iv. two types of tcp connections
        1. control connecction - used to exchange ftp commands
        2. Data connection - used for sending and receing data
      v. two types of FTP modes
        a. active
          1. FTP server expects port commands from client and reacts
          2. good for when client and server on the same network or firewalls will cut of the port commands
        b. passive
          1. FTP client ssays its going passive, server chooses a port to listen for new TCP connections and notifies the ftp client 
          2. ftp client opens the tcp data connection to ip and port leared from server's previous command
          
   c. FTP over TLS (FTP Secure) EXPLICIT MODE
    i. client creates ftp control tcp connection to port 21
    ii. client intiiates the use of TLS in the control connection with FTP AUTH command
    iii. user takes action requirting ftp data connection, the client creates and ftp data TCP conneciton to server port 21
    iv. client intitiattes the use of TLS in the data connection with the FTP AUTH command
    
   d. FTP over TLS IMPLICIT MODE
    i. begins with required tLS connection with not need for an FTP AUTH command using ports 990 for contorl connection and 989 for data connection. 
    
   TFTP protocol Basics
    1. uses UDP port 69 , and added a checksum process to verify file transmission. 
    2. should only be used for temporary quick file transvfers in a secure enviornment whn data does not have to be secure.  like transfering a file to your laptop . 
