Campus LAN Topologies
  1. campus LAN - LAN created to suppor tht edevice s in a building or multiple buildings in close proximity. (liek an office park)
  2. two -tier campus design (collapsed Core)
    a. access - switch fowards traffic from user devices and rest of LAN 
    b. Distibution -Switch fowards traffic between other LAN switches - each access witch connects to at leas on e distribution switch or typically 2 for redundancy
    c. core-Switch fowards traffic between other LAN switches
    d. solves the problems of
      1. connecting end user devices 
      2. connects the switches with a reasonable number of cables and switch ports by connecting all 40 access switches to 2 distrubutino switches. 
    e. Topologies
      1. Star - one central device connects to several others
      2. full mesh - for any set of network nodes, a design that connects a link between each pair of nodes
      3. partial mesh - a design that connects a link between some pairs of nodes but not all
      4. hybrid - combines different topology designs
    f. 2 Tier campus is a combo of 
      1. Star (at access layer)
      2. Partial mesh ( at distribution layer)
3 tier campus design (core)
  a. with cores you can provide connectivity to all parts of the LAN  with fewer links between buildings 
  
SOHO topology
  a. most use a mutli in one router with an ethernet switch, wireless access point, a router, and a firewall


PoE
  1. Power Sourcing Equipment (PSE) is the device that supplies DC jpoower over the Ethernet UTP cable to connect to a "powered device"
  2. good for wireless APs IP video camera and IP phones
  3. PoE uses autonegotiation messages and watches for return signal levles to see if requires power or not.
    a. do not supply power on PoE cable port unless negotian identifies a need for power
    b. use Ethernet autonegotiation techniqes sending low poer signal and monitoring to determine the PoE power Class
    c. If device is didtified as PD supply power per power class
    d. Monitor for changes to power class.  using autonegotion and listening for CDP and LLDP 
    e. If new power class is identified adjust th epower level per that class. 
cisco inline power - cisco - 7 watts at pse - 2 powered wire pairs
PoE - 802. 3af - 15 watts at pse - 2 wired pairs
poE+ - 802.3 at - 30 watts at pse - 2 wired pairs
UPoE - 802.3bt - 60 watts at pse - 4 wired pairs
UpoE+ - 802.3bt - 100 watts at pse - 4 wired pairs

when building using PoE think of 
  1. Powered Devices
  2. Powered Requirements
  3. Switch ports
  4. Switch power supplies
  5. PoE standards versus actual 
