QoS  - manages what happens  to a packet when it enters a switch
DIKTA
1. a,b,c
2. a,d
3. a,b,d
4. c,b
5. b,c
6. c,d

QoS manages
  1. Bandwith
    a. Speed of the link, through capacity of each type of traffic
  2. Delay
    a. One way - time between sending one packet and that same packet arriving at the destination
    b. Round-trip - Counts the one-way delay plus the time for the receiver to send back a packet
  3. Jitter
    a. variation in one-way delay between consecutive packets send by the same application
  4. Loss
    a. number of lost messages, typically as a percentage\
    
 Types of traffic
  a. Voice  - affected by delay, jitter, and loss, not so much bandwith though
    1. Delay (one-way): 150 ms or less
    2. Jitter 30 ms or less
    3. Loss: 1% or less
  b. Video  - affected by delay, jitter, and loss, not so much bandwith though
    1. Bandwith - 384kbps to 20 mbps
    2. Delay (one-way) 200-400 ms
    3. 30-50 ms
    4. loss 0.1% - 1%

 Quality of Experience QoE - users' perception of their use of the application on the network
  
Classification and Marking - Classifies packets based on header content and may modify bits in specific header fields.
  1. Enabled on an interface
  2. Are directional like ACLs
    a. entering 
    b. exiting
  
Foward->classify->Queue->Scheduling(prioritization)->Transmit

NBAR- Cisco Network Based Application Recognition - Identifies the differences of importance between applications. Like Amazon video vs cisco video surveillance camera

Marking Fields n- Relies on IPv4's Type of Service (ToS) bye in the IPv4 header
  1. DSCP - Differentiated Services Code Point
    a. 6 bit field from IPv6 - Traffic Class byte
  2. CoS - Class of Service or Priority Code Point or PCP
    a. 802.1Q header  on the 3rd byte of the 4-byte 802.1Q header. 3 bit field supplying 8 possible values.
    [Ethernet][802.1Q][Type][Data][/trailer]
    b. 802.1Q header only exists when 802.1Q Trunking is used on a link
    
Trust Boundary - Where the boundary for trusting the current QoS markings starts
  a. Typically a device that the IT staff controls
    1. Except for VOIP Phones - Where the phone is the trust boundary so they get good QoS.

DiffServ Suggested marking Values - Makes suggestions about specific DSCP values hoping to create consistent use of DSCP values in all networks. 
  1. Expedited Fowarding (EF)
    a. use for packets that need low latency (delay), low jitter, low loss)
    b. DSCP value - decimal 46  and an equivalent text name
    c. Many times used for voice payload packets
      i. voice calls are made up of voice payload and signaling messages (which dont require low delay because they just set up the call.
    d. Cisco IP Phones mark voice payload with EF with the value called CS3
  2. Assured Fowarding
    a. Defines a set of 12 DSCP values meant to be used together.
      i. 4 seperate queues
      ii. 3 levels of drop priority within each queue
      iii. AFXY
        a. X = queue (1-4)
        b. Y = drop priority (1-3)
          1. AF41 = best Queue and best drop
          2. AF13 = Worst Queue and Worst Drop
  3. Class Selector
    a. Backwards compatable with IPP 
      i. DSCP  values have the same first 3 bits as the IPP field with binary 0s for the last 3 bits
      ii. IPP = 0 CS = CS0 decimal DSCP = 0
      iii. IPP = 7 CS= CS7 decimal DSCP = 56
      
 Guidelines for DSCP Marking Values
 1. DSCP EF; Voice payload
 2. AF4x: interactive video
 3. AF3x: Streaming video
 4. AF2x: high priority (low latency) data
 5. CS0: Standard Data
 
 Queuing
  1. Receive -> ingress services -> fowarding -> egress services -> output Queue -> Transmit
  2. Components
    a. Classifier
    b. Queues
    c. Scheduler
      i. Prioritization of one queue over another
  3. Round-Robin Scheduling (prioritization)
    a. Goes through each Queue taking a certain number of bytes
    b. Weighting = taking certain percentages of total bandwith from each Queue
    c. Class-based weighted fair Queuing = CBWFQ
  4. Low Latency Queuing (LLQ)
    a. Treats one or more queues as a special priority queue meaning it will always take the next message from one of them. 
    b. This is for video or voice  so there are no drops. 
    c. Queue starvation may happen which is why we have policers to limit  amount of traffic in priority  queue.
    d. Call Admission ?Control tools help limit the amount of traffic the network routes out the link  so that priority queue doesn't discard excess messages
    
 Shaping - slows down messages that exceed shaping rate by queuing them 
  a. you can apply queuing tools like round robin and priority queueing tools like CBWFQ and LLQ
  b. typically happens before policing
  c. Time interval - internal logic and how a shaper averages sending at a particular rate 
    i. typically sends in batches by going as fast as it can and then stoping
    ii. you can configure the time interval to be better for voice or video packets for them to be steady and within the neccesary parameters. 
      1. I.E 10 ms time interval for voice and video
  d. Are enabled on an interface for egress (outing packets)
 
 Policing - Discards or re-marks messages that exceed policying rate
  a. useful for Service Provider to prevent customers from congesting the WAN Service and affecting all customers.
  b. May also remark packets letting them still get onto the network 
  c. Measure traffic rate over time, comparing to the configured Policing rate
  d. Allows for burst of data after a period of incativity
  e. Enabled on an interface typically at ingress
 Commited Information Rate (CIR)
  
Congestion Avoidance - reduce overall packet loss by premptively discarding some packets used in TCP connections.

TCP windowing
  1. flow control mechanism = windowing
    a. Each TCP connection has 2 senders and 2 receivers 
      i. window gets bigger as more and more data is received with no loss
      ii. with a loss  data sent is cut in half
    b. too avoid tail drop (full queue that drops packets) we use congestion avoidance tools
 
 Congestion avoidance - Discard some TCP segments before the Queues fill to avoid tail drop (which would drop even more packets)
  a. When queue passes the allowed threshold, the tool discards a percentage of the packets like 5 or 10 or 20 percent. 
  b. If the queue depth passes maximum threshold, tool drops all packets in a "Full Drop"
  c. Marked packets get  treated differently as well depending on how good they are. 
