Simple Network Managment Protocol
  1. Applicatrion layer protocol the provides a message format for communication of network info between
    a. Managers
    b. Agents
  2. SNMP Manager - network managment application running on a PC or Server with host typically called a network management station or NMS. 
  3. SNMP Agents - software running inside each device (router, switch, and so on) iwth knowledge of all the variables on that defvice that descripbe the device's config, status, and counters
    a. keeps database of vairables. Database is called Managment Information Base or MIB
  4. SNMP manger uses SNMP protocol to talk with SNMP Agents
  5. Cisco Prime is an example of SNMP managment products. Cisco IOS has built in MIB. 
  
  SNMP Variable Reading and Writing
    1. NMS typicall y polls the SNMP agent on each device. 
    2. Can configure or reconfigure devices using MIB if permited
    3. NMS uses GET messenges to retrieve info from an agent (comes in pairs : Get requests and Get response)
      1. SNMP Get
      2. GetNext
      3. GetBulk
    4. NMS uses SET messages to write varaible s on an Agent to change config
    5. Great for network engineers cause they have data on the networks and how they are operating
      a. Can set up text and email notifications for thresholds being passed. 
  
  SNMP Notifications: Traps and Informs
    1. SNMP agents can initiate communications to the NMS
      1. Trap
        a. fire and forget ( no error recover due to using UDP)
      2. Inform
        b. uses UDP but has application layer reliablity  added.
        c. NMS must acknowledge receipt of the infomr or agent will send Inform again. 
        
   Management Information Base
    1. MIB defines variables as an object ID or OID
      a. OIDs organized based on RFC standards and with vendor proprietary variables
      b. oID's are organized into a hierachry shown as a tree. 
      c.  typically an GUI because of complexity. 
      
    2. Securing SNMP
      a. Using ACLs to limit SNMP messages to those from known servers only. 
      b. Keep the NMS IP the same and configure ACLs to permit packets sourced from the NMS IPs only
      c. all versions of SNMP  support basic clear-text password mechanism
      d. cleartext passwords are called SNMP communities both snmp agent and manager need prior knowledge of the same snmp community value called community string
        a. the get and set messages include the community string value in clear text.
        b. get messages require Read only communities 
        c. set messages need Read write communities. 
      e. SNMPv1 uses communities, SNMPv2 didn't have communities until it turned into SNMPv2c
      f. SNMPv3 uses modern security. 
        i. message integrity - confirms whether or not each message has been changed during transit
        ii. Authenitication - username and password using hashing so its never sent in cleartext
        iii. Encryption
