1. SDA Southbound
  a. Overlay
    i. VXLAN Tunnels in the Overlay (Data Plane) (Virtual Extensible LAN)
      a. must happen on ASIC on each switch (specific hardware for fast routing)
      b. VXLAN encapsulation suppplies header fields that SDA needs for it sfeatures.
      c. The encapsulation does the entire data link frame so it can support layer 2 and layer 3
  b. Underlay
    i. uses a separate IP Address space  including the endpoint devices that send data over the SDA network. 
  c. Fabric
  
  Nodes in SDA network do not work like traditional layer 2 switching and layer 3 routing
  Here is one sequence.
    a. Fabric Edge node learn the location of possible endpoints by using MAC AAddresses, individual IP Address and by subnet, idefntifying each endpoint with an EID (endpoint identifier
    b. Fabric edge nodes register EID in a database called a LISP map server
    c. LISP map server holds EIDs and Routing locators (RLOCs) which identify the fabric edge node that reach the EID
    d. the fabric data plane will look for and find the desntiation in the LISP map server database when it need s to foward a message. 
    
  When new incoming frames arrive, the ingress tunnel router (ITR) - SDA node that receives frames from outside the SDA fabric - it needs help and does this
    a. Switch does not knoww where to foward the frame
    b. ingress node sends a message to the LISP map server
    5. LISP map server looks in database
    6. LISP map server contacts node listed as the RLOC 
    7. RLOC node informs ingress node where to send the frame

DNA Center
a. includes a robust norbound REST API and Southbound APIs
  i. Traditional protocols = telnet, ssh, snmp
  ii. modern protocols = NETCONF, and RESTCONF

DNA Center as a network managment platform 
  a. comparing to tradtional network managment (cisco prime infrastructure or PI)
    1. Single pane of glass gui
    2. Discovery, inventory and topology,
    3. Entire enterprise - lan wan and data center managment functions
    4. Methods and protocols 0- uses snmp, ssh, telnet and cdp and lldp to discover and learn info about devices in the netwwork
    5. lifcycle managment -supports installation, configuratioin, and monitoring
    6. application visibility - simplifies qoS config
    7. converged wired and wireless -manage wired and wireless on same platform
    8. software image managment - (SWIM)  software images on network devices and automate dupdates
    9. plug and play- performs initial installatin tasks for new network device so you can plug and play
    
 DNA center simililarities.
  1.  
  
 DNA center differences
  1. cisco DNA Center supports SDA where traditional does not
  2. future features 
  3. simplify work done by enterprises to reduce costs
  4. eeasy QoS
  5. Encrypted traffic analysis
  6. device and client 360 degree view of health
  7. network time travel
  8. Path trace
  
